# AAs & Popular Culture

## Definition: popular culture
- Portrayal of peoples lives through popular medium such as film, television, radio & novels.

## What are the functions of popular culture
- Entertainment
- Reinforce social, political, economoic institutions
- Slavery, exclusion, extermination of Indians, colonialism
-= Establish acceptable norms and boundaries

## Early portrayals of Asian Americans
- Negative
- Created public anxiety & fears of Asians

## Bad portrayals today:
- Helen Zia: gangsters, gooks, geishas and geeks.
- Jessica Hagedorn: Suzie Wong, Flower Drum Song, Dragon Lady, Madame Butterfly, China Doll, Tokyo Rose, Fu Manchu, Charlie Chan, Mr. Moto, Ming the Merciless, Little Brown Brother, Savage, Mysterious. Inscrutable, Sinister, Exotic, Submissive, Diminuitive, Indolent, Insolent, Sexless, Sexy, Mail Order Bride, Model Minority.

## What are ramifications?
- What is wrong with this?
- How much does public know about AAs?
- How much is their knowledge based upon popular culture.

## Prof. Elaine Kim
- It is sometimes difficult to distinguish fact from fantasy or to see members of racial minority groups as individuals.  We would be hard pressed to think of many portrayals in American popular culture of Asian men as lovers of white or Asian women.

- But almost every exotic Asian woman character is the devoted sexual slave of a virile white man.  The image of the Asian woman as exotic sex object describes the sexual power and significance of the white man at the expense of the Asian man.

- I am not opposed to interracial relationships as long as they are based upon mutual respect and trust and not upon racist ideology.

## Prof. Darrell Hamamoto
- In the post-WW2 era, rituals of psychosocial dominance were re-enacted daily through television.  TV programs articulated the relationship between race and power.  AA male roles relegated to domestic servants or sidekick detectives to white detectives.  AA females roles focussed on exoticism, attractiveness to white males.

## Three phases of resistance
- 1960s-70s.  Increased ethnic awareness and social consciousness.
- 1980s-90s.  Institutionalization, pragmatism and skills attainment.
- Mainstreaming with AAs involved in lead acting and production.

## Protest, resistance
- Miss Saigon,  1989-2014
- - Yellowface, denial of job opportunities for AA actors, Actors Equity Association, Jonathan Pryce,
- - Racist-sexist content.  Sexualized images of Vietnamese women.  Violence against women.
- - Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence.

## Rising Sun by Michael Crichton
- Story plot.
- Book forward: Japan's economic success due to adversarial trade.
- Stereotype: morally inferior, ruthless. conduct corrupt predatory business practices, manipulate trade laws and lust after white women.
- Potential film: lead to resent and violence vs. AAs.

## MANAA protests
- Demanded viewing of rough cut
- Demanded inclusion of disclaimer
- Refused by produces
- Protests: LA, SF, NYC, Chicago and Washington DC
- Charged negative roles to Asians

## Third World Coalitions
- 1999: Asian AMerican Media Coalition, NAACP, Latino Media Council & American Indians in Film and Television
- 2000. Of 30 new shows, yonly 7 AAs cast in supporting roles.
