# Week 7

## Sufism in Islam
- Known as Tariqah, or "method or way".
  -  From outside, a departure from Islam, but within it is not.

## Sufism: Rituals
- They have distinct rituals from other types of Islam.
  - Meditation (Seems more buddhist).
  - Remembering spiritual lineage ()
  - Mentioning of God's name internally, through breathing, or through chanting.
- Partake in prayer and fasting (common).

## Music within Islam
- Music awaken "Basic Instincts"
- Common Islam believes music distracts from prayer.
- Very popular among Turkic Sufi communities.
- Religious practice gets interwoven with musical performances.

## Sufi Shaykhs, Murshid, or Pir
- Murshid (arabic) for "Teacher"
- Pir, or Ishan (Pers) for "Elder"

## Muhammad has a Night Journey
- Muhammad takes a night journey and meets a previous prophet.

## Institutions of Sufism
- Various schools and organizations of "Tariqah"

## Veneration of Saints within Islam
- Not recognized in the Qur'an (no holiness other than God)
- "wali" = friend guide.
  - Those who are spiritually endowed.
 - Buried in shrines.

## Ahmend Yasawi
- Ahmad ibn Brahim ibn Ali of Yasi
- 12th century Turkic Sufi and poet.

## Baha ud-din Naqshband Bukhari
- 14th century Sufi leader of a lineage.
- Political and Worldly.
- Adhere to Sharia and SUnna.
- Stress internal dimension of Sufism rather than external (shrine pilgrimage).

# 10/8/2015

## Islam in Tajikistan
- 97% Muslim (majority Sunni)
- 4000 registered mosque
- Religious freedom is constitutionally protected
- Legal restrictions on religious freedom.
  - Official registration
  - Building of mosques only under specific guidelines
- Executive office has a "Center for Islamic Studies" used for monitoring and helps provide a
framework for governance.
- Ulena (Body of religious scholars)
  - 2004 issued a decree prohibiting women from attending mosques.
  - Children often banned from attending.
  - Dress code.

- In 2011, the Tajik government successfully sough passage of several repressive and vague
admendments to the criminal and administritive codes.
- One article sets fines for religious practice.
- Fine for the production, distribution, and the importation of religious literature.
- The Parental Responsibility Law went into effect in August 20111. The law bans almost all
religious activity by children, including mosque attendance, and participation in funerals.

## Types of Shrines in Tajiskistan
- Astan (trees or cairn)
- Qadamgah
  - Shrines touched by prophets of Shi'a
  - Mazar
    - Most important those of Sufi shaykhs

## Qadamgah of Bibi Fatima
- Immortal spirit of Bibi Fatima reside here.
- Cures the sick.
- Women who struggle with fertility issues come to bath

## Shrine Pilgrimage
- Making journeys to auspicious sites marked by shrines.
  - Royal burials.
  - Teachers (both M and F)
  - Saints
  - Sufi shakhs
- Ritualistic aspects
  - Worship
  - Honoring the deceasd
  - Offerings
  - Identity formation

- State worries not about personal but rather large gatherings

## Ritual at Mazars
- Sacrificail Offerings
  - Strips of cloth, animal remains, triangular objects hung from poles.
  - Object hung from sacred trees.
  - Making of wishes.
- Shamanic antecedents
  - Erecting a pole to hang sacrifical objects.
  - For worship.

## Side Notes
- Jafar al Sadiq Mazar
- 8th century CE Shi'a Iman
- 90 km from Niya

## Mazars and Resistance
- Path of pilgrimage
- Large gatherings (20,000) at certain important sites
- Strengthen Uyghur identity:
  - Provide an organizational framework for resistance.
  - Function outside the government's control.
  - Social netowrkds that tied the community together.
- Music, song and dance performed at large social gatherings strengthens Uyghur identity and sense
of national unity.
- Mazars regarded with suspicion in Central Asia
- Difficult to control, existed outside "official Islam".
- China:
  - Links them to fundamentalism
  - OFten bans large festivals
  - Appropriates important sites.
  - Describtes them as backward traditions.
