# Week 4 (Tuesday September 15 - Thursday September 17)
The Steppe, SHamanic Traditions and Pastoral Nomadic Identities.
- Manas was seen as a important 'father figure' in Kyrgi history.
- "The Golden Warrior" is a compenent of nation identity in Kazahkstan.

## Pastoral Nomadism
- Groups that support themselves through their animals and hwo moved seasonally for the best
grazing land.
- Subsistence Pattern
  - Fixed pattern of movement
  - Evidence of mixed economies

##$ Rise of Pastoral Nomadism
- Domestication of the horse
  - Hunted for food
  - Domesticated by sedentary agriculturist. (5th Millenium BCE)
  - Used as pack animal, perhapds riding (4th-2nd Millenium BCE)
  - Horse primarily trained for riding (late 2nd Millenium BCE)

### Pastoral Nomadic Herds
- Sheep and goat (native species)
- Horses (Steppe-pony) for riding and herding
- Yak in higher elevations
- Used Bactrian camel used as pack animals

### Pastorial Nomadic Ecoonomy
- Animal Husbandry
- Two opinions:
  - Self-sufficient economy supplemented by exchanges with sedentary societies
  - Must interact with other economies or practice part-time agriculture
- To survive: communities need to be relatively small

### Social Structure
- Clan Structure("Tribal")
- Kinship (Specific lineages)
- Tied together by shared language, culture, history etc.
- Patrilineal
- Gender:
  - In general, it is argued that there was more equality than in contemporaneous sedentary society.
- Steppe-Sown
  - Ideologically opposed subsitence patterns? (Not exactly according to evidence)
  - Pastoral Nomads depend on sedentary communitites for dry products
- Traded animal products to sedentary society
- Their mobility and horsemanship made them into a force

### Pastoral Nomads in the Archaeological Record: Scythians
- Did not produce many written accounts
- Balance out text with archaeological research
- Not too much research because "Nomadism" was considered primitive

### Kurgans at Pazyryk
- "Frozen Tombs"
- First one excavated bty Sergei Rudenko in the 1920s.
- Differed in size but not execution
- Buried with their horses.

### Chineses Finds
- Mirror and silk finds revealed these early groups traded with China.

### Pazyryk
- Found tatoos on mummified bodies.
- Both men and women had horses, weapons, and tatoos.
- Kurgan 2 at Pazyryk, a man and woman were buried together
- Mummification
  - Internal organs removed and replaced by organic materials
  - Bodies dried out with salt
  - Reasons for mummification

## Shamanism
- Centered on a "Shaman", or a person with secret knowledge
- Visiable world permeated with invisible spirits
- 18th and 19th century research described shamans as mentally ill people that tricked people
  - They were fully integrated in their society

### Functions of the Shaman
- Mediator on behalf of indivudal or community
- In trance, soul is dispatched to another dimension
  - Rituals are done to bring Shamans in trance

### Shamanic Symbols
- Shamans often have symbols sewn on their clothing
- Bird symbols indicate the ability to fly while in trance
- Elaborate headdress often indicate the connection to the cosmos

### Cosmology
- Belief by which people place themselves in their surroundings and perceived unvirse
- Three stories cosmos:
Earth, Sky, and Underworl
- Symbols associated with the cosmos are trees or tree branches

### Islam and Shamanism
- Central Asia is an interesting mix of the two

### Shamanic Powers
- Inherited (shamanic gift)
- Result of ascetic training
- Guardian spirits often take over a shaman
- Visionary calling
