# Week 9: Soviet Case Study: Tajik Svoiet Socialist Republic
- Tajikistan has a strong Persian influence.
- Samanid Dynasty has history in Tajiskistan.

## Fall of the Berlin Wall
- Fall of the Berlin Wall (1989) signaled the collapse of the Soviet Union (1991).

## Why did the Soviet Union Collapse?
- Economic Problems
  - Decline of economic output, food shortage, inflation, decline of expores, increase in imports.
- Ethno-cultural nationlism
  - national movements among republics governemnts.
  - calls for autonomy, language change etc.
    - No such call from CA however.
- Pluralization of Soviet politics
  - emergence of democractic opposition and steady erosion of the Communist Party's monopoly to
  power.
- After fall of the USSR, those who were in power stayed in power within Central Asia.

# A Usable Past
- Use the image of Timurid to validate rightfulness to led.
- State casts women into a domestic sphere.

## Nation-Building in Central Asia
- Soviet creation
- After collapse of the Soviet Union, republics on a course of nation building.
- Create loyalty, patriotism, and devotion to the state.

## Soviet Ambivalence Towards Timur
- Soviet education gave the original Timur (originally in a negative way).
- Soviets helped rebuild old Timurid buildings.
- When statues of Lenin fell, statues of Timur rose.

## Timur in Uzbekistan
- Karimov centers Timur during speeches to unify a Uzbekistan.
  - Timur is imagined as a great leader of a nation.
- Uzbek educations gives a positive of Timur.
- In depth analysis of Timur is hard within Uzbekistan.
