# Timurid Empire
- Timur means iron.
- Tamerlane = Time the lane.

## Timurid
- Born in 1336 into the Barlas clan.
- Becomes "Amir" of the clan in 1361.
- Turco-Mongolian heritage.

## Amir Timur
- 1370: Timur becomes Amir of Transoxiana and proclaimed himself as the successor of Chinggis Khan.
- Problem: could not claim decent from Mongol ruling house.
  - Marries a descendant of Chinggis Khan.
    - Very involved in architechture projects.
  - Maintained puppets of rulers who were descendants.
  - Never assumes title-Khan.
  - Fosters personal myth.
- Related himself with Sufism.  Constructed a grave site of them.
- Archietech of the Timurid Period.

## Islamic Art: General Remarks
  - Unfluence of the Arabic Languages.
  - Five Pillars of Islam
    - Profession of Fatih
    - Prayer
    - Alms Given
    - Fasting
    - Pilgrimage

## Influence of Arabic
- Language of the Qur'an and of formal prayer.
- Importance of the "Message" led to the flourishing of calligraphy.

## Prais: The Five Pillars
- Profession of faith often figures prominently in design.
- Prayer requirements led to specific architechural design.

## Mosque
- A place you can bow down, as long as you have directionality.
- An open space is required (often a columned hall) for prayer.
- Place for ritual washing prior to prayer.
- *qibliah* direction towards which on prays.
- *mibrah* a concave niche indication the correct orientation.
- *minbar* a high seat from which the kurhah is delivered.

## Representation of Living Beings
- Does Islam prohibit figural representations?
  - THe Qur'an condemns the worship of false idols.
  - Hadiths show Muhammad disapproving of images and issued injuections against those who made
  images.
- Figurative art is usually absent.

## Timurid Innovations
- Expansion of the mosque to include shrines and madtrassas.
- Double-domes.
- Faience mosaic.
- Connecting galleries to link the iwans.
- Increase in minutes.

## Female Patrons
- Saray Mulk Kannun oversaw construction of the Bibi Khanum mosque and maltrash.
- Minur's sisters helped construct part of the Shah-i Zinda

## Ulugh Beg
- Often related to the sciences.
- Pushed for the education for both boys and girls.
- Has/Built his own observatory.

## Shahrukh (1407-1447)
- Moved capital to Herat, Afghanistan
  - Son Ulugh Beg governed in Samarkand.
- Timurid rennaiassance.
