# Perceptions of Mongols
- Amazons
- Barbarians
- Based on Kevin Stuart, "Mongols in Western American Consciousness"
- Illuminated the images of Mongols constructed by Americans and European

# The Myth of the Amazons
- Tribe of woman warriors that came from the peripherals of the map known back then.
- Gaddafi had an all female guard known as Amazons.
- Etymology
  - Greek sources: a-mazos, without-breasts.
  - Iranian: ha-mazaon, warriors.

## Amazons in the Greek Mind
- Homer's Iliad (8th or 7th Century) describes the Amazons
  - Nation of warrior women who mated with defeated males and kept only female children.
  - The are around the Black Sea.

## In Anthiopis by Arktinos of miletos
  - Amazon Penthesilein is killed by Achilles
  - Greek mythology.
    - Herakles' capture of the girdle of the Amazon queen, Hippolyte.

## Myth ~ Reality
- Herodotus
  - 5th century BCE Greek "historian."
  - Describes a nation of warrior women who were captured by the Greeks and put on ships where they
  overwhelmed and killed the crew subsequently drifting to the shores of the Black Sea where they
  encountered the Scythians
  - Sauromatians of the Eurasian Steppes.

## Amazons as Anti-Male
- "...the Amazons, whom the Scythians call *Oior-pata* or "man-slayers" as it may be rendered. "

## Amaazon as Disfigured
- Herrodotus detailed breast removal:
- No right breast so they can use archery and believed that the breast drained strength from the
arm.
- Diodorus Siculus also talked about stopping breast growth.

## Medieval "Monster Races"
- Marvels of the East. England. 1025-1050 CE.
- Blemmyae
  - Acephalic
- Bicephallic
- Panotti

## Terminology
- Mongol
- Tartar
- Khan
  - Altaic tribes to designate a military commander or chieft.
  - Khangan is a chief of chiefs.

## Ecology
- Northern Steppes (same belt as Kazakhstan)
- Ethno-linguistic classification base on subsistence pattern not possible
- Mongols one of many pastoral nomadic on Stepeps

## The Secret History of the Mongols
- Preserved in a Chinese transcription as the Yuan Ch'ao Pi Shih
- Thought to be authentic by most scholars.
- Completed after Chinggis's deatha nd relates to the ancestral myth of the Mongols as well as
political events leading up to 1241.
- Translated into English in the 1950's

## Chinggis Khan
- 1206 Quriltai: receives title of Chinggis Khan "the Greatest Lord"
- Expansion East
  - Treaty with Xixin in 1207.
  - Uighurs submitted in 1209.
  - Campaigns against the Jin 1211-1215.
- Expansion West
  - Uzbekistan
  - Afghanistan, Pakistan
  - Russia, Kazakhstan

## Chinggis Empire
- Largest Empire
- "New Social Order"
  - Loyalty over kinship
  - Regime was based on the Inju, Mongol core, turkic collaborators, and troops
  - Later it included sedentary collaborators as well
  - Clan leaders were loyan to the Khan.
- Militaristic
  - Well organized into decimal system
  - Draft

## Supra-Tribal Structure
- "Macrocosm of the tribe"
- Structured around a common identity.
- Mongols gave the confederacy its name.
- Borjigid clan was considered the "royal clan".
- Chiefs had a large retinue of military commanders.

## Yasa: Mongol Legal Code
- Recording of all legal judgements to form a body of case law.
- Yasa means "order" or "decree"
- Written on scrolls in Uyghur script introduced by Chinggis.
- Judments dictaed by high moral standards
  - Blood feuds, adultery, theft, bearing of false witness, were forbidden.

## Religious Beliefs
- Traditionall Shamanist
  - Mongke Koko Tenggri "Eternal blue Sky"
  - Spirit controlled the forces of good and evil
- Chinggis's personal Shaman was Kokochu.
  - advisor to Chinggis in his campaigns and political endeavors.
  - Scholar and healer.

## Questions
- Why did the Mongols advance?
  - cchinggis own desire
  - Climatic changes
  - Under Chinggis, the pastoral nomadic groups had been reorganized outside natural kinship
  patterns into decimal units called the 'ordo' system.
  - "Normal" pastoral nomadic economy impossible.

## Why was it so detrimental?
  - Power of the cavalry
  - Psychology of destruction

## Why was resistance so weak?
- Fragmentation
- No large standing armies

## Why did the Empire Collapse?
- Independence of military commanders had an inherent danger to create fiefdoms.

## Legacy of the Chinggisid Mongols
- Opened up contacts between China, CA, and Middle East.
- Territorial expansion had an impact on science.
- European sources would describe them bringing the Bubonic Plague.
