# September 1, 2015

## Tajikistan: Civil War
- Rahmon Nabiyev came to power in 1991
- From 1992-1997

## Political Leadership
- 4 leaders came to power before collapse
- Islam Karimov (Uzbekistan)
- Nursultan Nazarbayev (Kazakhstan)
- Saparmurad Niyazov (Turkmenistan, died in 2006; replaced by Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov)
- Askar Akayev (Kyrgyzstan, no longer in power, replaced by Kurmanbek Bakiyez, who in turn was replaced by Roza Otunbaeva in 2010, in turn replaced by Almazbek Atambayez)

## Governments
- Republics
- Executive branhc, legislature, and judiciary.
- Reality: "Executive Presidencies"
- Constitutions adopted in early 1990's
- By the mid-1990's: Admendments limited powers
- Few opposing forces

## Independent Central Asian States: Shared Characteristics
- Recent countries, borders created during the Soviet Union
- Independence in 1991, by factors beoynd their control, with no de-colonization movement.
- Power held by erstwhile communist leaders
- Soviet bureaucracy stil persists
- Economies were crippled due to 70 years of enforced participation
- Mostly developed as providers of raw materials
  - Mostly developed as providers of raw materials
  - Mono-cotton culture
  - Infrastructure geared towards Moscow

- High levels of ecological damage
- Complicated inter-ehtnic relations.

## Conundrums
- Nation-Building

## National Language
-  Russian Language was colonizer
- Altaic Languages
  - Turkic:
    - Kipchak (Kazakh, Karakalpak, Kyrgyz)
    - Turkic (Uzbek, Uighur)
    - Oghuz (Turkmen)

- Indo-European language family
  - Iranian
    - Tajik
  - Slavic
    - Russian

## The Role of Islam
- Sovets tried to stop the Islamic religion.  After WWII Soviets became a more open to Islam because
they had interests in Middle East.  The State controlled the religion.

## Potential "Problems"
- Re-drawing of state boundaries
- Ethnic Unrest
- Cross-border communities
- Enviornmental disasters
- Complex inter-regional relations

## Geo-Strategic Context
- Russia
- Turkey
- Iran
- East Asia (China)
- United States

## Kazakhstan
- Very grassy, people followed animals in earlier eras

### Government
- Independent (Democratic) Republic
  - Executive Branch
  - Legislature
  - Judiciary
  - Administrative regions ruled by governors and councils

- President
  - Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev
  - In 2000, the legislature passed a law granting Nazarbayev extraordinary powers and privileges and
    and unlimited amount of terms
- Multi party system, however, political opposition parties are small and powerless.

### Relation with the US
- Economic Interest post 1991
- Stretgic location and natural gas reserves
- Strategic interest post 9/11

### Environmental Challenges
- Replenishing of the Aral Sea
- 70% of Soviet nuclear testing conducted in Kazakhstan.
- Soil and water pollution

### Kazakhstan: Current Issues
- Complicated inter-ethnic relations, in partiuclar amoung Kazakhs and Russians.
- Border issues with Kyrgyzstan
- Environmental Challenges
- Has a large Uighur population and shares a long border with Xinjiang province.
- Maintaining ties with Russia while attracting U.S. and China's investment.

## Uzbekistan
Smaller than Kazahkstan, but more densely populated.  Much more agricultural and urban.

### Government
- "Secular and Democratic" Republic
  - Executive Branch, 7 year terms, but 5 in 2011
  - Legislature 5 year terms
  - Juriciary nominated by President
  - Governors (hakims) rule provinces (one autonomous region: Karakalpakstan, occupying 37% of the vote).
- Ruled by the Liberal Democratic party
- Islam Abduganievich Karimov is President

### Uzbekistan and the U.S
- Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan.  They were linked to the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and used bases in Tajikistan and Afghanistan
and used bases in Tajikistan and Afghanistan to launch attacks in Ubekistan.

### Andijo Uprising: May, 2005
- Anti-government demonstrations broke out in Andijon province in May to seek the release of Muslim business who had been jailed
for religious activities.
- May 13: demonstrations end in a bloodbath
- Karimov blames radical Islamic group fro the Uprising
- US probe inton the massacre and its subsequent support for the evacuation of Uzbek reguess from Kyrgyzstan to Romania led to
the end of relations between Uzbekistan and the US.

### Uzbekistan: Economy
- Cotton and Mining (Gold reserves)
