# Yurts
- Pastoral nomadic communities needed dwellings that could be set up and taken down easily.
- Has to be portable.
- Has to be light weight.
- Yursts consist of domed roof and roundy body.
  - Lattice wooden frame covered by cloth.
- Wooden yurts have an earth layer on top.

## Symbolism(s)
- Construction
- Vertical
- Horizontal
- Functional

## Constructing a Yurt
- Some ethnographic evidence suggest that certain Turkic speaking communities the erection of a Yurt
is structured and maintains a necessary duality
- New yurt made by relatives of bride, groom brings door posts, shaanrak, and half of the felts

## Vertical Symbolism
- Anthropomorphic Analogies
  - frame = skeleton
  - center = navel
  - pockets in hoop = eyes
  - torso and back
  - side lattice = pelvic bones
  - bend in frame = shoulder
  - base of dome rods = belly

## Horizontal Symbolism(s)
- Gender
  - right is male, left is female
  - male side
    - child birth, weddings, funerary rites, guests
- Status
  - "Tor" most sacred place, marked by a pile of bedclothes on a chest; place of honor connected
    with fertility and wealth.
  - Lesser half towards the door.

## Shanarak
- Symbol of fertility
- Apotropaic aspect
- Association with a supernatural being "Albusty"
- Womb

# Nomadism and Identity Formation in Modern Central Asia

##  Mongolia Today
- Different political entities:
  - Republic of ongolia
  - Inner Mongolian Autonomous Region (China)
  - Kahnykia
    - Speaks the Mongolian language
  - Buryatin
    - Speaks the Buryat Dialect of Mongolian
    - Part of the Russian Federation

## Place of Chinggis Khan
- National Hero/Father of the Nation in Mongolia (also among Kazakhs)
- Nationalism (re-emergence of identities)

## Archaeology
- The burial of Chinggis Khan

## DNA research
- "A prolific lover"
- Ten years of research
  - 8% of men in the territory of the former Mongol Empire carry similar Y-Chromosome
  - Marker goes back 1,000 years

## Religion
- The state of Mongolia likes Buddhism over Shamanism because it can be institutionalized.

# Kazakh Nomadic Identity Today
- Greater, middle, and lesser
