# Race

## Decription and Racial Classification
- Ingrained perceptions of the "East" helped define "scientific" racial categories such as
Caucasoid, Negroid and Mongoloid.
- The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Human Evolution.
  - Caucasoid have "fine", and well developed characteristics.
  - Compared to this norm everyone is inferior.
- "Mongoloid"
  - Social construct derived by perceptions
  - Based on skin color and facial features
  - Mongoloid paints a particular picture.

## The "Mongol" Body
- Yellow, stocky, short legs, round head, dark hair, flat nose, scant beard, slanted eyes.
- Blue Spots

## "Mongoloid" as Mentally Inferior
- "Mongoloid" used to designate mental retardation.
- Associated with "mongol" features.
- Term that is later known as Down Syndrome.

## Films, Fiction, Documentaries
- Content of films focus on perpetuated images
- Always primitive and destructive.
- Modern representatino depicted as "happy natives".

## The Conqueror
- "This is a cowboy picture and that's how I am going to play Ghengis Khan"
- Reviews
  - "Portrays the great conqueror as a square-shootin sheriff and a mongolian idiot"
  - "Wayne does most of his communicating through a series of grunts.  Perhaps the director....
  didn't tell him he was a mongol not a mongoloid".

# What's in a Word

## Central Asian as Dangerous
- Turk
  - "Formerly applied to the barbarous, savage, and cruel, from the European association of the Old
  Ottoman Empire with barbaric practices, from medieval times until the early years of the 20th
  country: now usually applied to mishievous, and unruly children".
- Hun
  - "One of a barbarous Asiantic people that invaded Europe around 450"
  - A barbarous or destructive person.
  - Used as a disparaging term for a German.
  - "Nomadic people from North CA.  Organized in hordes."
- Tatar
  - Tartart, A member of a Turkic group inhabiting Tatarstan in west central Russia and parts of Siberia and CA.
  - A ferocious or violent person.
  - Irritable temper
  - "To Catch a Tartar" means to grapple a formidable foe.

## Central Asian as Inferior
- Madman
  - Idiot, moron
- Mong
  - Mongrol dog
  - Short for Mongoloid
- Mongie
  - Dull, stupid
- Mongoloid
  - Former reference to down Syndrome
- Mongolian
  - Affected with Mongoloism
- Mongolism
  - A congenital malformation which the child with slanted eyes, large tongue, and braod skill are
  considered imbecils.

## Images of Mongols/Turkic Tribes
- Mostly negative and one-dimensional
- Image of the "mounted nomad" barbarian
  - Help perpetuate the notion of an uncivilized group
