# Week 10: Environmental Degradation
Became a land to provide raw materials.

## 3 Main Topics
- Cotton Mono-culture
- Petro-chemical industry
- Nuclear Program

## Problems
- Desertcation
- Pollution (Chemical, Pesticide, and Ferilizer)
- Soil Erosion

## Cotton and the Aral Sea
- Was the 4th largest inland Sea in the world.
- Replenished by two rivers.
- By the 1980's the flow into hugely decreased.
- Aral Sea bifuricated.
- Water drainage from the rivers in order to have more cotton.
  - Cotton needs a large amount of water.

## Vozrozhdeniye Island
- Soviet Union developed biological weapons on this island.

## Ecological Consequence
- Salination of soil.
  - Over time this will lead to less and less arable land.
- Loss of fishing.
  - Destroys economies that relid on it.

## Environmental "Refugees"
- 100's of thousands of people in the Aral Sea got pushed out o the surrounding region.

## Water and Conflict
- Between Xinjiang-Kazakhstan
  - Dispute over water supply from the Ili and Irtysh river.
  - Water irrigated in Xinjiang for cotton.
- Kyrgyzstan - Uzbekistan
  - Revenge flooding by use of Kyrgyz dam in Tokhogul which supplies the Syr Darya river.
  - Destroyed Uzbek harvest by flooding.

## Caspian Sea
- Threatened by pollution, not Desertcation.
- Many countries claim part to the Sea.
- Oil and Sturgeon.
- Layer of Oil covers the sea.

## Nuclear Testing
- Race for Nuclear Weapons started by U.S.
  - Manhattan Project
    - Oppenheimer.
- 1942 Developed
- 1945 Testing in Hiroshima(little boy) and Nagasaki(used plutonium)
  - Caused the surrender of Japan
- After Hiroshima and Nagasaki it went over to civilian oversight.
- U.S testing sites developed in the Pacific.
  - First is the Bikini Islands.
  - Still has radiation on it.
- Nevada was the center of atmospheric testing in the United States.
  - The Conquerer was shot there.
- 1957: First Underground Test
- 1962: Cuban Missile Crisis.
- 1963: Limited Test Ban Treaty signed by US and Soviet Union.
- 1968: Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
- 1970: US Environmental Protection Agency formed. Movement to highlight dangers of nuclear
  proliferation.
- 1985: Soviet Union announces a nuclear testing moratorium.
- 1986: Chernobyl.
- Mururoa Testing: LAst minute French fire before ban.

## Soviet Test
- Testing on local population.

## Lop Nor, Xinjiang
- China exploded their first bomb in Lop Nor

## Conclusions
- How to achieve sustainable develpoment in Central Asia?
  - Water saving politices.
  - Reduce reliance on cotton.
 - Waste management projects.
 - New energy sources.
- Restore the Aral Sea?
  - Only probable if irrigation could be reduced to zero.
  - Bringing new water in.
  - Kazakhstan's solution.
