# Week 9

## Tsarist Control of CA
- Were not about complete reconstruction of CA.
- Didn't care as long as economic and administrative needs were met.
- Changed during Soviet Rule.

## Topics
- General Terms.
- Russia on the eve of the Russian Revolution.
- Revolutions of 1917
- Central Asia after the revolution.
- Soviet politics and leadership.
- Soviet Economy.
- Impact on Central Asia.

## Socialism + Communism
- Marx wrote Communist Maniffesto
- Believed in a classless state that was international.
- Marx believed a revolution led by a small group of marxist revolutionaries
to go to a socialist state then a communist state.
- Soviet Union was more of a Socialist state heading towards a Communist state.

## Opposition to the Tsars (1898-1905)
- Tsars were ruled by Romanov family.
- Farmers were exploited.
- Russian Social Democratic Party rose, and its goals were better living conditions
in working cities.

## World War I (1914-1918)

## Bolshevik Revolution 1917
- 1912
  - Revolutionary Marxist became the majority split off from the RSTP to
  become the communist party.

## Central Asia in Early 20th Centrury
- Swept by Civil War.
  - Russian military and political factions.
  - British interventionists.
  - Nationalist movements.
  - Basmachi movements.

## Khoqand Experiment
- Turkestani leaders had been promised the right of self determination and
autonomy.
- Formed a Central islamic Council of Turkestan.
- Were not included in the governing of the new territories.
- Bolsheviks rule in Tashikistan.
- Leaders were killed in the end.

## Alash Orda Movement
- Tribal leaders formed a Kazakh government in December, 1917 and demanded
autonomy.
- Disbanded in 1920 and replaced by Soviet Rule.

## "Basmachi" Movement
- Turkestan National Liberation Movement
- Arose in the Fergana Valley
- Consisted of many, different groups that often had conflicting agendas.
- Powerful from 1916-1926
- Power waned until the movements collapsed in the 1930s.

## Jadids
- 18th -19th centruy "Muslim Reformers" (among Tartars)
- Advocated new methods of teaching, rise in literacy.
- Print media distribution.
- Saw the Bolshevik revolution as a new era for Central Asia.
- Advocated a unified Muslim Turkestan in oppoition to ethno-linguisitc nationality policies of
the Soviets.
- Victims of Stalin's purges.

## Soviet Central Power
- Vladmir Lenin (1917 - 1924)
  - Put things in place.
  - Made Socioeconomic changes.
    - Eliminated Private Enterprise.
- Joseph Stalin (1924 - 1953)
  - Brutal rule.
  - Eliminated opposing voices.
  - Put in place the 5 year plans.
  - Institution of collective farms.
  - Yalta Conference
    - US, British, Russia demanded Germany to surrender.
- Nikita Khurshechev (1953 - 1964)
  - Cuban missile crisis.
  - Policies implemented on Kazakhs made them sedentary.
    - Saw it as a Genocide
- Brezhnev (1964-1982)
  - More information in West on Soviet Union.
  - Afghan War (1979)
  - Doctrine, wherever capitilism fights a communism in any part of the world, Soviets are obligatedGj
  to help.
- Gorbachev (1985-1991)
  - Tried to right the "wrongs" of Soviet Union.
  - Looked for openess in government.
  - Wanted more parties in governance.

## Soviet Economy
- Five-year plans (Quota system)
- Agriculture
  - Under-performed due to lack of agricultural lands and system of collectivization.
  - Failed to meet basic food needs.
  - Lack of incentives, inadequacy of machinery, poor storage, distribution.
- Industry
  - Poor quality, high cost
  - Centralized decision making held up production.

## National Delimiitation
- 1924 - 1936
- Five large administrative units called Soviet republics.
- Borders drawn along ethno-linguistic lines.
  - 'Language defines nations'
  - Ethnic and linguistic affiliation coincide and form the marker of national identity
  - Limited Nationalism.
  - Somewhat successful in that most titular groups were incorporated into their respective units.
  - Borders provided the deconstruction.

# Environmental Imapct
- Aral Sea communitites.

## Changes in Education and Language
- Mass education in Soviet ideology.
  - Free and compulsory for boys and girls.
  - Creation of an effective workforce.
  - Politicization and incorporation into a new system.
- Creation of national literatures and histories.
- Language and script substitions.
  - bar non-Russian speakers from acquiring higher education and better jobs.
  - national languages promoted.
  - Arabic script first replaced by Latin alphabet in 1940 by the Cyrillic cripts.

## Islam
- Initially tolerated, the became the focus of fierce anti-religious campaigns.
- Muslim beliefs were attacked and ridiculed.
- Social infrastructure was wiped out.
  - Islamic schools, collages, courts were closed.
  - Payment of religious taxes was forbidden.
  - Religious endowments were confiscated.
  - Mosque were closed.
  - Arabis was abolished.

## The Built Environement
- Homogenization through architecture and state monuments.
- New buildings were generic and no attentaion was paid to local traditions.
- ALl public speaces were dominated by statues of Lenin and Marx.
- Places names chaged.
- Preservation of some ancient monuments
- Culture deprived of models of past.
