# Week 6
- Stone age characterized by stone tools, Bronze age characterized by bronze tools.
- In Central Asia it explodes in 3rd Millenia BCE (3300-1200 BCE)
  - Civilizations suddenly collpased.  Believed to be caused by drought.

## Sart ~ Nomad
- Modern moeaning
  - Agrarian communitites
    - Uzbeks, Tajiks
- Sart from Sarthavaha (caravan leader)
- Applied to settled Persian speaking and agrarian communities in Central Asia
- Later designated Turkic speaking settled communitites, as well

## Zoroastrianism
- Zarathushtra
  - 2nd Millennium BCE
  - Became the state religion of the ancient Persian empires,
- Sacred Scriptures "Avesta"
- Parsis (Parsees) of Mumbai (Bombay_ and some small communities in Iran (150,000 adherents)

## Islam

### Structure Principles
- THe authority of the Qur'an.
- Muhammad as the Prophet.
- Five Pillars
  - Shahadah (profession of faith)
  - Salah (prayer)
  - Zakah (alms giving religious tax)
  - Sawn (fasting)
  - Hajj (pilgrimage)

### Diversity
- Doctrinal Diversity
  - Sunni
  - Shia
  - Sufism

### Cultural diversity
- regional traditions

### Muhammad
- born in 570 into the Quraysh tribe in Mecca

### Qu'ran
- Revealed to the prophet from god
- "Recitation"
- Message of Islam revealed to the prophet Muhammad is considered by Muslims to be the final
revelation of God (Moses and Jesus were earlier prophets)
- Literal word of God.
- Consists of moral teachings.
- Composed of 114 chapters of Suras, arranged from longest to shrotest.
- Suras divided into a number of verses.
- Language of the Qur'an is Arabic, if not it is an interpretation.

### Mecca
- Center of trade.
-  Largest city in the Arabian peninsula.
- Canonical center of the Islamic world.
- Quiblah.

### Al-Masjid al-Haram
- The Sacred Mosque in Mecca

### History of the Ka'bah
- Authentication of the sacred (part of divine origin)
  - Always been sacred
  - Not just starting in the 7th Century
- Referenced Adam and Abraham.

### Adam
- Story is roughly the same as in the bible
- First man, woman "made" from his soul.
- Taste from the forbidden tree

### Abraham
- Sacrifices Ismail instead of Issac,
- Kabah built by Ibrihim and Ismail.

### Prophet Muhammad
- Muhammad Ibn 'Abd Allah ibn'
- Narrative relating to Ka'bah.

### After Muhammad
- Dies in 632 CE.
- Example of Muslim life and piety: his way is known as the SUnna which is contained in the hadiths.
  - The Sunna is considered the second source of Islamic teachings.
- His leadership is followed by a series of four caliphs, known as the "Righly Guided".
- Disputes arise regarding the rightful succession to Muhammad (Shi'a and Sunni division).

### Central Asia
- Middle of the 8th centural CE: much of Central Asia had been incorportated into the Arab realm.
- Expansion east halted by China's move west.
- Samanids: first independent Muslim state in Central Asia
  - emerged in the 9th century CE with the capital in Bukharn
  - The court languages were Persian, Arabis, and Turkic.

### THe Spread of Islamd and Trade
- Islam enters South and Central Asia in the 8th century when trading colonies were founded.

### Doctrinal Orientation
- Sunni Muslim of the Hanafi School
  - Abu Hanifah founded the Hanafi school in the 8th century in Iraq from where it spread to Iran
  and Central Asia.
  - Non-heirarchical and centralized.
  - Hanafi school in Central Asia in the early 9th century.
- Sunni Muslims who adhere to Sufism.

### Hanafi Principles
- One of four Madhhabs
  - Opinion and Reasoning
- Distinction between faith and praxis
- Jurisprudence held in high regard over deotional interpretation.
- Socio-economic necessity overrides the need for religious orthodox.
- Importance of local custom
