# Week 8

- Russia in Central Asia (2 Phaes)
  - Tsarist annexation
    - Began mid-18th century with the absorption of Kazakh confederacies.
    - Ended in the late 19th century with the incorporation of the southern Uzbek Khanates
  - Soviet Union (1920s-1991)
- Impact
  - Five former Soviet Republics : Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Turkmenistan.
  - To some extent Xinjiang and Afghanistan.

## Colonialism ~ Imperialism
- CA only been united 3 times.
- After Timurid, there were two regions, the north and the south.
  - In the north there was the Lesser Horde, Middle Horde, and the Great Horde.
    - No one knows why there were three hordes.
    - Lineages go back to the Mongol Period, all 3 claimed to come from the Chinggis bloodline.

## Cultural Setting on the Eve of the Russian Annexation
- Considered primitive, tribe structure, shamanism.

## Russia Prior to Conquest
- Tartars (Mongols) used to extract valued goods from Russian areas.
- When tartars became fragmented Russia came into power.

## Tsarist Russia
- Centralized and autocratic system of rule
  - accountable to no one but God
  - Ruthless Secret Police
  - Rule of the Church
- Russia as a modern power
  - Ivan IV (Terrible) in 1547
  - Romanov family since 1614 beginning with Michael
- Peter the Great (Pyotr Alexeyevich Romanov) from 1682-1725
  - Made Russia into an European power and campaigned to modernize Russia.

## Russian Expansion
- Expansion commenced in the 16th century to remove Mongol rule and restriction
  - Cossack pesant soldiers decended from fugitive serfs settled the frontier steppes and defended
    them against the Turks and Mongols.
  - First movement east along the lines of least resistance. Pacific reached at the end of the 17th
    centruy.

## Russian Annexation First Stage (1730-1848)
- 1730- Kazakhs have no overall unity but are divided into three confederations (Greater, Middle,
  and Lesser Hordes)
- Khan of the Lesser Horde accepts vassal ship and subjugation by Russa.
- 1762-96 colonization by Russian peasants and the establishment of military posts.
- Tatars of the Volga (incorporated into the Russian empire since 1552 traders) were instrumental
in the subjugation of Kazakhs.  Aided in the spread of Islam.
- Tsars saw that a more Muslim society was more controllable.

## Russian Annexation Second Stage (1864 - 1884)
- "Fast and decisive"
- Not much resistance fro the Khanates
- 1868: Khanate of Bukhan becomes a de-facto Ressian protectorate.
- 1873: Khanate of Khiya falls
- 1876: Khannate of Kokand was eliminated.
- 1881: Turkmen tribes were defeated and territory was annexed.
- The fall of Merv in 1884 put Russia very close to Afghanistan and the British Empire.
- 1881-1883: Occupation of Xinjiang after its ruler sympathized with the British.

## Underlying Reasons for Annexation
- Economic
  - Need to establish new markets for growing Russian industries.
  - Raw materials.

## Underlying Reasons for the Annexation
- Economic
  - Need to establish new markets for growing Russian industries.
  - Raw materials
- Political
  - Crimean War (1852-56)
  - British designs on Central Asia, Russian design on India
  - Weakness of the Kazakh hordes and Uzbek Khanates.

## Imperialist
- Restoration of glory of Russia
- Ideological Expansion of Russian Civilization
- "Some territories bessech domination."
- Russification
- Colonization
  - Agricultural settlers
  - military occupation
  - Civil servants
  - Industrial Workers
  - Demographic physiognomy of cities changed
- Agircultural transformation
  - Fertile land seized from nomadic groups.
  - Loss of land to settlers
- Economic Impact
  - supplier of raw material for the Russian industry.
  - Market for Russian Goods.
  - Decrease in food production.

## Impact of the Russian Annexation
- Infra-structural changes
  - Railroad and telegraph system to facilitate control of the colony and aid economic explotation.
- Social Impact
  - Not so much impact in culture and religion.
  - Russia convinced Central Asian would soon 'see the superiority of Russian culture'.
  - "Policy of neglect" (culture deprived of extenral sources of support)
  - Segreation.
